Just a reminder, we have a brand new
Discord called the Aviators Alley. If
you want to join a community of everyone
from student pilots all the way up to
airline pilots, click the link down in
below. It's completely free and there
will never be a payw wall on any of the
content in there. I will see you in
there. You finally got the email.
Congratulations. We would like to invite
you to interview. Now, your heart rate
spikes. You're refreshing your email
every 30 seconds and suddenly you
realize, I need to prepare and fast.
Whether you have two weeks or two days,
I'm going to walk you through exactly
how to prepare for your airline
interview as quickly and efficiently as
possible. This is the same strategy
pilots use when they're struggling
flying, studying, maybe instructing, and
still trying to land that first airline
job. Let's get into it. Number one, it's
important to understand the interview
structure. The fast way to prepare is to
understand exactly what you're stepping
into. Airline interviews in 2025 are all
built around the same structure. Number
one, HR or tell me about a time
questions. This is the biggest part of
the interview. Airlines will want to see
how you think, how you communicate, and
how you handle stress. Number two,
technical/cenario questions. These are
going to be your aerodynamics, IFR,
weather, rags, systems, and
scenario-based risk decisions. Number
three, a logbook review. Expect
questions on endorsements, gaps in
flying, unusual training items,
failures, or explain this to me. Number
four, group exercises or crew resource
management scenarios. Not every airline
uses this, but many do. They're checking
how you communicate, not your aviation
knowledge. Number five, sometimes a
simulator evaluation. This is going to
include basic instrument flying, CRM,
and decision-m. They're not expecting
perfect performance. They're evaluating
teachability. Knowing the structure
instantly tells you what to focus on and
what not to waste time on. Tip number
two, use the 8020 rule. What actually
matters? If you only remember one thing
from this video, let it be this. 80% of
your interview score comes from how well
you communicate, not how much you know.
Airlines hire based on professionalism,
communication, humility, crew resource
management skills, personality, and
decision-making, and your ability to
learn. That's why rushing to memorize a
random list of 500 technical questions
is not the best use of your time.
Instead, you must focus on what matters
most. HR responses, stories,
decision-making, your why you got into
flying, your confidence, your clarity.
This is what wins interviews, even if
your technical answers aren't perfect.
So, here's how to prepare fast. Build
your core 10 story bank. This is the
most important and efficient way to
prepare. Almost every HR question falls
into one of these categories. A time you
solved a problem. A time you were
challenged. A time you made a mistake. A
time you dealt with conflict. A time you
helped someone. A time you were a
leader. A time you had to make a tough
decision. A time you disagreed with
someone. A time you adapted. A time you
communicated under pressure. That's
every airline, every interview, every
year. These same themes. So you prepare
fast by building a core 10 story bank.
Adapt to any of these questions. Use the
star format. Situation 10 highquality
stories. You can task, action, result.
Then add one more thing almost everyone
forgets the lesson. What did you learn
from it? This shows humility and growth.
Two of the biggest green flags airlines
look for. Remember, your goal is not to
memorize lines. Your goal is to know
your story so well that you can adapt
them on the fly. Number four, master
your opening questions. The first 60
seconds of your interview sets the tone
for everything. You must prepare two
highly polished answers. Number one,
tell me about yourself. Do not go into
your life story. Do not start with,
"Well, ever since I was a kid." This
must be clean, professional,
chronological, and under 60 seconds. A
strong format is your background, your
training path, your flight experience,
and why you're sitting here today.
Number two, why do you want to work for
our airline? This is where 90% of people
stumble. If you want to nail this fast,
show you understand the airline's
mission and values. Show how your
personality and goals align with them.
Mention their culture, fleet, or
training reputation. End with something
personal, not generic. Here's an
example. I want to work for Sky West
because of your training culture and I
want the CRJ experience. You don't need
a perfect essay. You need a clear,
authentic answer. Mastering these two
questions instantly puts you ahead of
most applicants. Number five, technical
prep fast. Technical questions can feel
overwhelming, but they don't have to be.
The best resource online is
aviationinterviews.com
where you where previous people that
have interviewed go and submit gouges of
all the questions that they were asked.
You don't need to memorize textbooks.
You need to speak confidently about the
things you already know. Here's the
fastest way to prepare your technicals.
Step one, know your aircraft systems
cold. Whatever you've flown most
recently, know those systems extremely
well. Airlines don't care if you can
explain a hydraulic system on a 737.
They care if you can explain your
airplane clearly and confidently. Focus
on things like fuel, electrical, the
engine, the prop, the pedtoatic, the
environmental systems, stuff like that.
Step number two, review core IFR
concepts. You don't need to be a CFI
teaching a class. You need clear
explanations. Review things like holding
entries, alternate requirements,
approach minimums, lost comm procedures,
takeoff minimums, equipment failures.
Step three, scenario-based thinking.
Airlines love scenario questions. You're
on short final and the tower tells you
to go around. What do you do? Or you
lose your aars on approach. What now?
Your captain is fatigued. What do you
do? They're not testing your knowledge
here. They're testing your judgment.
Think out loud. Show your process. Use
this framework. We've been saying this
since day one of flying. Aviate,
navigate, communicate, and then
mitigate, and debrief. Step four, review
the AIM hotspots. Review the aim. Things
like hotspots, NOTM changes, lost comms,
oxygen rules, fuel requirements, special
airports, the difference between 91 and
121. Take 1 hour and skim the key
sections. It helps more than you'd
think. Number six, prepare for the
simulator efficiently. If your interview
includes a simulator evaluation, and not
all of them do, here's how to prepare
fast. Airline semi valves are usually a
pretty simple profile. Straight level
climbs, descents, standard rate turns,
intercepting a course, tracking a
radial, maybe a localizer, maybe raw ILS
data, crew resource management under
pressure. The goal here is not
perfection. The goal is to show
smoothness, teamwork, communication,
your ability to accept coaching. And
here's a fast prep tip. Chairfly the SIM
profile every night before bed for 10
minutes if they give it to you ahead of
time. Practice call outs, crew resource
management, practice your flows.
Remember, they're evaluating your
trainability, not your performance.
Number seven, fix your log book before
they ask you about it. If you want to
prepare fast, you need to avoid
surprises. Your log book is one place
where surprises destroy interviews.
Audit your log book for incorrect
totals, missing endorsements,
inconsistent flight times, duplicated
entries, missing instrument time,
missing PIC, SIC clarity, training gaps,
exact questions like what happened
during this training gap. Expect
questions like why did you stop flying
during this time or tell me about this
check ride failure. Explain your
instrument time. Explain how you got
this multi-time. Don't hide anything.
Own your story. Be honest and confident.
Airlines don't care about the mistake.
They care about how you talk about it.
Number eight, show them you're already
an airline pilot. Here's a secret most
people don't realize. By the time you
sit down in that chair, they already
know you can fly an airplane. They're
trying to figure out if they want to sit
next to you for 4 days on a trip. So,
even if you're preparing fast, you must
present yourself like someone who
already fits the culture. Speak clearly,
be calm, be professional, be humble, be
conversational, smile. Don't try to
sound like a textbook. Be human.
Airlines hire people they can train.
They hire people who communicate well.
They hire people they want to fly with.
If you show up confident, composed, and
coachable, you'll stand out immediately.
Let's say the worst case scenario
happens and you're really, really short
on time. I'm talking like 48 hours till
your interview. Here is what I would do.
Day one morning, I would work on
building my core 10 stories. Write your
tell me about yourself. Write your why
this airline. Day one afternoon, review
your aircraft systems. Review IFR core
items, risk management. Day one evening,
if you have a SIM, fly the SIM profile.
If you don't, review your HR questions.
Day two, morning. Mock interview with a
friend. Fix your weak spots. Clean up
your log book. Day two, afternoon,
practice scenarios, rehearse your
stories, review your introductions. Day
two, evening. Finally, chair fly session
if you can. Lay out your clothes for the
next day. Go to sleep early. That's
exactly how pilots prepare when they're
on a tight timeline. and it works.
Preparing for an airline interview fast
isn't about cramming. It's about
focusing on what actually matters. Your
communication, your judgment, your
self-awareness, your confidence, your
story, and how well you fit into their
culture. Airlines don't hire perfect
pilots. They hire trainable pilots. They
hire humble pilots. They hire
professional pilots. If you're preparing
for your interview right now, you've
already made it farther than most people
ever will, and you should be extremely
proud of that. If you want me to make
more videos like this, including a deep
dive into how to answer HR questions
perfectly, let me know in the comments.
Remember to check out the Discord down
in the description or in the first
comment.